Welcome!                                                              

I know you are joining us here at HAL under less than ideal circumstances.  Your team has been hired to replace an IT group that was terminated for cause.  I won’t go into the details, but they were unable to provide the level of service and support we expect here at HAL.  As a result, you will find that you certainly have your work cut out for you.  We have decided to completely outsource our cloud-based storage and support services, and as such will be provided your department with a set of our standard support servers and systems.   You have inherited a network that is fraught with problems. 

Before you get too far into your first work assignments, since we don’t have time to send your team members off to formal certification classes for the HAL Change Management and Incident Response programs, you will have to make do as best as you can with self-study. You’ll have to juggle these while working on the assignments as well.


You need to have at least two (2) members of your team certified as regional Change Management administrators by downloading and studying the CM policies and procedures documents set from a previous email repository immediately. They must then take and pass the online quiz earning a 100% before any CM documents will be accepted from your team (as in Task # 20-P1). Completion is mandatory. Upon completion of this training one of the CM certified administrators is expected to review and sign all CM forms prior to submission. I would advise against having both your Captain/Co-Captain as CM specialists as their duties may take them away during change management meetings. The CM certification quiz is located at: http://tinyurl.com/HALCMCert. Email the names of your CM certified team members when they have successfully passed the certification exam and within one (1) hour.
Similarly, at least two (2) other members of your team (different than the CM administrators) must be certified as Incident Response specialists by downloading and studying the IR policies and procedures documents set from the halcorp.biz repository immediately. They must then take and pass the online quiz earning a 100% before any IR reports will be accepted from your team. Completion is mandatory. Upon completion of this training one of the IR certified team members is expected to review and sign all IR forms prior to submission. I would advise against having both your Captain/Co-Captain as IR specialists as their duties may take them away during incidents. The IR certification quiz is located at http://tinyurl.com/HALIRCert. Email the names of your IR certified team members when they have successfully passed the certification exam and within one (1) hour.
Here are your first tasks.  Please read the list carefully and note the due times and prerequisite tasks:

Task #20-P1) Initial Configuration of Systems
Prerequisite Task: None

Due within: 2 hours of receipt

Begin by setting up, configuring and hardening the systems and services we will need to continue functioning.  Some of our critical services are currently functioning below full capacity.  Be advised, we have a very strict change management (CM) program here at HAL.  While we’ve temporarily suspended the need to obtain formal corporate approval for today, we do expect you to document, in great detail, exactly what changes you are making to the systems and why.  As soon as all of your servers are fully configured and operational, I expect you email the completed change management logs to the CISO account.  You need to accomplish this within two (2) hours! Make sure you keep updating your CM logs, as you may be expected to continue to make modifications to the systems as the day progresses, but make sure you send us the logs as of the time you declare your servers operational. The change forms were emailed to your accounts previously. Note: this task is a mandatory prerequisite for Tasks P3, P4 and P5.  If you fail to complete this task during the assigned time, it is essential you complete it anyway and submit the required documentation, as you may not receive credit for the other tasks until this task is complete!

Task #20-P2) Setup of Team Accounts
Prerequisite Task: None
Due within: 1 hour of receipt
At the same time, you will need to setup your team up with accounts as new employees ASAP. There are a number of existing employee accounts already in the system – do not delete any existing accounts!  Email the CISO account when you have finished setting up individual accounts for all of your team members on the Webmail server (Fedora VM not www.seccdc.org) & the Active Directory server (3 total).  After all you’re HAL employees now.  This needs to be done within one (1) hour.

Task #20-P3) Malware Scan 
Prerequisite Task: 20-P1) Initial configuration of systems
Due within: 3 hours of receipt 
I have heard reports that many departments have been plagued with malware problems… viruses, worms, backdoors, etc. If you have not done so already, please download and install some form of open source/freeware anti-malware/anti-virus software onto all VM systems and use it to scan all of your servers and the remote Windows client workstation (not your local systems) for any type of malware, unauthorized materials, etc. Email a report to my CISO account so that I may brief the CEO this afternoon.  In your email, what malware software and strategy you employed and describe what you found. Even if you performed this task previously, update me on what you found.  If you do find any malware or other unauthorized access, systems or applications, please be sure to also report it as specified in HAL’s IR procedures so that we can determine if it’s a pervasive incident. Just as with the NMap scan, don’t attempt to complete this task until you’ve completed the initial system configurations (Task #20-P1) on the indicated systems, as otherwise you may introduce new malware. You also have to submit that task first.

Task #20-P4) System Vulnerability Scan
Prerequisite Task: 20-P1) Initial configuration of systems.
Due within: 3 hours of receipt 
Once you’ve completed your initial system configurations, you will need to conduct a comprehensive systems vulnerability scan. First, ensure suitable logging is enabled on all systems. This will provide critical information.  You may be asked for copies of your system logs in a later report. 
Download, install and configure Nmap from http://insecure.org and perform a complete systems scan on your MySQL, Webmail, E-commerce & Active Directory/DNS servers. Once you’ve finished the scan, write up a brief summary of the 3 most critical vulnerabilities for each server. The vulnerability report should be organized by server or service and include an overview of what’s wrong, and what you would do to resolve them.  If your scan finds no vulnerabilities on a server after your initial updating, and your scan output supports this, then just note this in your report (as “no vulnerabilities identified”).   
Don’t just throw the Nmap’s output file at me; let me know what it means.  I need a well written and comprehensive report using the approved HAL memo template, along with your scan output files, emailed to my CISO account for a meeting with the CEO. Note you MUST complete Task #20-P1 for the indicated systems before starting this assignment as you may otherwise make changes to a system that introduces new vulnerabilities after the scan, and we’d miss them.  You also have to submit that task first.

Task #20-P5) Install/Configure Security Onion
Prerequisite Task: 20-P1) Initial configuration of systems.

Due: Installation notice within 3.5 hours, report within 4.5 hours.

Last week I attended a seminar on Security Onion. Based on our current inadequate protection strategy, I think this is exactly what we need to begin securing our systems. I recommend you download Security Onion immediately from  https://download.securityonion.net/file/Security-Onion-16/securityonion-16.04.6.3.iso. The documents are available at https://securityonion.readthedocs.io/en/latest/. I’d like you to set this application up, enabling BOTH the NIDS and HIDS functions, and configuring it to monitor each public-facing server.

Security Onion is very robust. I strongly recommend you implement as many of its features as possible now, because I’ll most likely just ask you to do it later anyway. Once it’s operational, send me an email then (within 3.5 hours) then let it collect about 30 minutes of data and prepare a short interpretation and findings report for me due in the next four and a half (4.5) hours. If you do detect any anomalous activity, please be sure to also report it under IR procedures so that we can determine if it’s a pervasive incident. Your report should include the software’s findings. Include some screen shots and captured output with your report, along with interpretation – don’t just throw the output at me.  This could give me the ammunition I need to convince the CIO hire a full-time IDPS technician. You must complete and submit Task #20-P1 (even if late) before starting this assignment as you may otherwise make changes to your systems that could affect the analysis.

Remember to properly format all communications between your team and Headquarters, using the official HAL Memorandum template for reports.  Do not just email us with an attachment with an email body text of “Done”, “See Attached”, or “Completed” etc.  Be professional!

Make sure you maintain the appropriate logs (CM, IR and password), as we may audit them at any time.

Remember all work assignments will come from and need to be emailed back to the HAL CISO’s account (hal.ciso@seccdc.org) – just hit “Reply to All” when responding so both of us get a copy.  Also remember that all questions need to go to my CIO email account hal.cio@seccdc.org).  You certainly have your work cut out from you, but from what I hear, you are the team to make it happen.  Good luck, and make us proud!

Paula Wilson,

CIO

-- 
Chief Information Security Officer
HAL Corporation, INC.

<NOTE BE SURE TO HIT REPLY TO ALL WHEN RESPONDING TO AN ASSIGNMENT>
This email is a task assignment as part of the Southeast Collegiate Cyber Defense Qualification Competition.  Any reuse or further distribution is prohibited without the expressed permission of the SECCDC Operations group.
--
Chief Information Security Officer
HAL Corporation, INC.

<NOTE BE SURE TO HIT REPLY TO ALL WHEN RESPONDING TO AN ASSIGNMENT>
This email is a task assignment as part of the Southeast Collegiate Cyber Defense Qualification Competition.  Any reuse or further distribution is prohibited without the expressed permission of the SECCDC Operations group.